# BACKUPMON v1.15
**First off** -- HUGE thanks to @Jeffrey Young for sharing his original backup script. His script is the main engine of BACKUPMON, and all credit goes to him! BACKUPMON is simply a wrapper around Jeff's backup script functionality, adding easy-to-use menus, more status feedback, and the ability to launch a restore based on your previous backups. Also, huge props to @visortgw for contributing to the backup methodologies thread with his scripts and wisdom!

**Executive Summary**: BACKUPMON is a shell script that provides backup and restore capabilities for your Asus-Merlin firmware router's JFFS and external USB drive environments. By creating a network share off a NAS, server, or other device, BACKUPMON can point to this location, and perform a daily backup to this mounted drive. To perform daily, unattended backups, simply add a statement to your cron schedule, and launch backupmon.sh at any time you wish. During a situation of need to restore a backup after a catastrophic event with either your router or attached USB storage, simply copy the backupmon.sh & .cfg files over to a newly formatted /jffs/scripts folder, ensuring that your external USB storage was formatted with the same exact name (which is retrievable from the instructions.txt in your backup folder), and perform the restore by running the "backupmon.sh -restore" command, selecting the backup you want to use, and going through the prompts to complete the restoration of both your /jffs and external USB drive environments.

**Use-case**: BACKUPMON was designed to backup from, and restore to an already configured router, given a situation of a corrupted USB drive, botched Entware environment, or other general corruption issues. It can, however, also restore you back to a previous state if you decide to completely wipe your router or external drive from scratch. You can use it to move from one external USB drive to another... say, upgrading from a flashdrive to an SSD! You could also use it to restore your environment to a similar router if your old one dies, and you pick up the same model as a replacement. It is not meant to restore backups from one particular model of router (ex: RT-AC86U), to a different shiny new model (ex: GT-AX6000) that you just picked up. In this case, it's still best to set your new router up from scratch, and selectively import any critical files manually from your .TAR backups to your new router if needed.
